Some R code for using Mobile Network Operator (MNO) data in producing
official statistics
================

## Introduction

This repository shares some of the R code developed within the MNO-MINDS
EU project framework. MNO-MINDS stands for “Mobile Network Operator
Methods for Integrating New Data Sources.” The Italian National
Institute of Statistics (Istat) is leading the project as coordinator,
along with nine other European national statistical institutes as
partners: Austria, Germany, Spain, France, the Netherlands, Norway,
Romania, Sweden, and Portugal.

The project started on November 1, 2023, and is expected to end on
November 30, 2025. The main goal is to identify new and existing
methodologies suitable for integrating Mobile Network Operator (MNO)
data with non-MNO data sources to produce regular official statistics.
The project’s official webpage can be found
[here](https://cros.ec.europa.eu/mno-minds).

The project activities are structured into four work-packages (WPs):

- [WP1 - coordination, management,
  dissemination;](https://cros.ec.europa.eu/book-page/mno-minds)

- [WP2 - landscaping analysis of possible non-MNO data sources to be
  integrated with MNO
  data;](https://cros.ec.europa.eu/book-page/mno-minds-wp2)

- [WP3 - development of methodologies and open-source tools for
  integrating MNO and non-MNO data
  sources; ](https://cros.ec.europa.eu/book-page/mno-minds-wp3)

- [WP4 - proof-of-concept of an ad-hoc survey to improve MNO
  data.](https://cros.ec.europa.eu/book-page/mno-minds-wp4)

  
The R code available in this repository is one of the outputs of the
WP3. In particular the WP3 worked to:

1.  Develop methodologies for processing and integrating MNO and non-MNO
    data according to a well-defined total error framework, considering
    different levels of data aggregation and data configuration and
    different uses of MNO data.

2.  The WP3 also implemented these methodologies in documented,
    open-source tools.

  
The work on the software is documented in deliverable D 3.3, which will
be disseminated soon. The first part of D 3.3 describes a tool that
simulates real-world mobile network events and provides artificial data
to test developed methods. In particular, data generated by this tool
are used in the “Sensor Presence” case study. An ad hoc R function,
[`oob.err.R`](https://github.com/mno-minds/MNO-MINDS/blob/main/R_code_Sensor/oob.err.R),
was developed to apply the geographically weighted regression estimator
(expression 6.1 in D 3.2) and calculate the associated delete-one
out-of-bag prediction error.

  
All the analyses illustrated in Chapter 10 of Deliverable D 3.2 were
performed in the R environment (R Core Team, 2025). An ad hoc R
function,
[`audit.test.R`](https://github.com/mno-minds/MNO-MINDS/blob/main/R_code_trip_stats/audit.test.R),
was developed to apply the test described in Section 10.1. While the R
function
[`pest.R`](https://github.com/mno-minds/MNO-MINDS/blob/main/R_code_trip_stats/pest.R)
was developed to apply the linear-prediction, transfer-learning, and
mixed ensemble estimators described in Section 10.2 and illustrated in
Section 10.3 of D 3.2.

All the analyses illustrated in Chapter 14 and included in deliverable D
3.2 were performed in the R environment (R Core Team, 2025), however,
they can be performed using any software package. To apply the SUD
estimator (expression 8.6 in deliverable D 3.2), an ad hoc R function,
[`sud.R`](https://github.com/mno-minds/MNO-MINDS/blob/main/R_code_QR_experiment/sud.R),
was developed.  
